[MUSIC]
This lecture is about the Tkinter Library.
It's a graph user interface library for
Python, and
it allows you to make
graphic user interfaces.
So we'll talk about that
library a little bit.
We'll only go over a little bit,
actually, right now.
We'll get into more depth
in that in the next course.
So, Tkinter is a library
commonly used Python library for
making graphic user interfaces.
It provides you the tools you need so,
many widgets, buttons, menus,
labels, scroll bars.
All the widgets you expect to see,
you can create those using this library.
It provides a canvas widget,
so, a canvas widget it something
where you can draw pictures.
So either the user or
the code can draw things,
rectangles and whatever you wanna draw,
you can draw them in a canvas.
That's what canvases are for.
Remember that the GUI doesn't
have to have a canvas, right?
A GUI could just have a bunch of button
and scroll bars and things like this, but
a canvas is useful, right, for drawing
any kind of image that you wanna draw.
So we're gonna go through very briefly,
just go through our little program,
just to give you an idea of what this
library can do is just one little example.
So first, you do an import at the top,
from Tkinter import *,
that imports all the classes
from the Tkinter library.
So we do that to start, we do our import.
Then root, so we make a root window.
For that, we call this Tk(),
Tk()'s a constructor function for
the main class in the library.
So, you have to create this
root object right there.
So, you create the root object, and
that's going to be a window on the screen.
Then next line, root.geometry,
that sets it's size, right?
So, root.geometry, we're going to make it
800 by 600 or whatever we want to make it.
So we set its geometry, then next thing
we're doing is we're creating a canvas.
C = canvas.
So that canvas function creates a canvas.
Notice the first argument to
that canvas is the root, right?
So this canvas is gonna be created.
This canvas is for drawing.
For drawing images, squares,
rectangles, whatever you want.
This canvas is gonna be
created in the root window,
because that's the first
argument to the canvas function.
And we give the dimensions of the canvas,
800 by 600,
which coincidentally matches
exactly the root window.
Which it doesn't have to.
It could be smaller.
But, we give the canvas some kind of size.
Then c.pack {], what that path function,
what that does to the canvas is that
actually makes it appear on the screen.
Without the pack it won't
appear on the screen.
So you codec.pack {] to make
it appear on the screen.
Then we draw.
Now we can draw inside the canvas.
So, we're calling this create rectangle
function c.create_rectangle, and
it does just what you think it does.
It makes a rectangle, 0, 0, 50, 50.
So it takes those two
points on the screen, 0, 0,
which is upper left-hand corner, and 50,
50, which is 50 down, 50 to the right,
and it makes a little square,
red rectangle.
It's red because we said fill is red,
outline's red.
So it makes a red square in
the upper left-hand corner.
So that's all you would see if you ran
this code, that's what you would see.
It's a very simple code,
just to give you an idea of some of
the functions inside this library,
and we'll talk about it more later.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]